

On Thu, Jun 2, 2022 at 9:00 PM Gregory Brown <gregorysound2020@gmail.com> wrote:

When I was introduced to the theatre, in 1973, the electrical to the theatre was routed through the flushing restrooms (Toutle).

A 1 KVA transformer was installed at the lodge and was configured for 120 to 240 volts. The transformer output was connected such that there was 480 volts to run to Toutle and then to the theatre.

The run was #10 wire using black polyethylene water pipe as the conduit. At the water tower, the run gained another wire from the float switch.

The float switch was to control a water pump at the theatre. This was intended to pump more water to the lodge. There were several unsuccessful attempts to get this to work; but, I digress.

The run from Toutle to the theatre was protected with a 60 amp circuit breaker. Toutle itself was powered by a 440 volt to 110 volt transformer. (I think that it might have been 2 KVA.) There was an identical transformer at the theatre. (Those transformers are long gone.)

Prior to this system, the 440 to 110 volt transformers had been used to step the voltage up to 44 at the lodge and back down to 110 at the theatre. One conductor was strung through the trees utilizing insulators nailed into the trees. The return conductor was the water pipe. (DO NOT forget to turn the theatre power off before working on the plumbing!)

I do not remember the exact year that the 440 volt system was retired. By then we had the well.

The power to Toutle and the theatre was replaced with a run of #6 direct burial wire.

The transformer, from the lodge, was re-wired as a 240 volt autotransformer. The center-tap was bonded to earth, at Toutle, and became the Neutral wire for Toutle.

The old theatre power wires were then used at 240 volts. A transformer in Harriet's Hangout was connected in the same manner as the Toutle transformer.

The next iteration of power to the theatre was the "Big Dig".

It occurs to me that There are three multi-pair communication wires that are not used. Those could probably be removed and scrapped.

-Greg Brown
